Perudo, also known as Liar's Dice, is a multiplayer game played with dice.
At the beginning of the game, every player gets 5 dice.
Each round, one player loses one of his/her dice.
The goal is to be the last player left with dice.

Here is how a single round of Perudo is played:

  Each player takes all of their dice and rolls them. Each player can then
  only see his/her own dice. They see how many dice each other player has,
  but not what each die roll is. In real life, this is done by placing
  the dice in a cup and shaking it, rather than actually rolling them.

  A player begins the round by making a bet. The first player to bet is the
  player that lost a die in the previous round. The first player to bet in
  the whole game is chosen arbitrarily.

  A bet has two components: a die number (num), and a quantity of dice (total).
  When a player makes a bet, he/she is effectively stating, "I think that
  there are at least this quantity of this die number on the table."

  The next player in the circle must choose between making another bet or
  calling "dudo" ("I doubt" in Spanish) on the previous player's bet.

  If a player chooses to make another bet, their bet must be higher in quantity
  or in die number than the previous bet. For example, if the previous bet was
  num = 4 and total = 8, then they could bet num = 5 and total = 9
  (or total = 10, 11, etc.), or they could bet num = 5 (or 6) and total = 8.

  A bet cannot raise both the num and the total.

  If "dudo" is called, all dice are revealed, and the accuracy of the previous
  player's bet is examined. If it turns out that their bet was correct, i.e.,
  that there are at least the stated total of the stated num,
  then the player that called "dudo" loses a die. Otherwise, the player that
  made the bet loses a die.

  Important exceptions to the rules above:

  Exception 1:
  Dice with a number of 1 are "wildcards." That is, they are always counted
  as part of the total when a player calls dudo. If the table reveals seven 3s
  and four 1s, the total of 3s is eleven, NOT seven. This changes the rules for
  betting as well, as noted in the following exceptions.

  Exception 2A:
  When betting, a player has a third option in addition to calling dudo
  or making a bet that is higher in either num or total. The third option is
  to change the num to 1 and halve the total, rounding up when the total is odd.
  For example, if the previous bet was num = 4 and total = 8, the next player
  can also bet num = 1 and total = 4. If the previous bet was num = 4 and
  total = 9, the next player can bet num = 1 and total = 5.

  Exception 2B:
  If a player bets with num = 1, then the next player's bet must follow the same
  rules as before, except if he/she desires to increase num rather than total,
  the total must be at least 2 times the current total plus 1. For example,
  if the previous bet was num = 1 and total = 4, the next bet could be
  num = 2 and total = 9. Alternatively, the next bet could just as well be
  num = 1 and total = 5.


  Optional variations:

  Palifico round:
  When a player loses their second-to-last die, the next round starts with the
  same player making a bet, but the entire round is played with the same num.
  That is, if the player with one die bets num = 3 to begin, all subsequent bets
  must be bets of num = 3, and therefore the only way to make a bet is to raise
  the total. Palifico rules only last for one round, no matter the outcome.
  This rule does not apply when there are only two players left in the game.

  Calza:
  In addition to calling dudo or betting, a third option may be added, called
  "calza." A player that calls calza is betting that the current bet is exactly
  correct, that is, the num and total values for the table are spot on. A player
  may call calza at any time, except of course if the first bet has not
  occurred yet. If a player's calza call is correct, they regain a die, though
  no player can have more than 5 dice in their cup. If the call is incorrect,
  the player loses a die and starts the next round.
